After 57 years of marriage, Edward and Gwen are still deeply in love, what's their secret?
While they say their relationship is built on noticing, thinking about, and enjoying each other's good qualities.
And that makes sense, right? Because that's how our relationship with Jehovah works as well.
James 4 and 8 says, draw close to Jehovah, and he will draw close to you.
As we take steps towards Jehovah, he reciprocates, and he takes steps towards us.
Well, what kind of steps should we take?
Hebrews 11 and 6 explains it this way.
It says,
moreover, without faith, it is impossible to please God well,
for whoever approaches God must believe that He is,
and that He becomes the rewarder of those earnestly seeking Him.
Now, relationships are built on trust, and trust is really an act of faith.
So, if we want to get closer to Jehovah, we have to earnestly seek Him, Paul says.
We need to be more curious, more open-minded, and show more courage.
Moses did this so well.
Let's see how, in his life, applying these three steps allowed him to draw very close to Jehovah.
Step number one, be more curious. Moses searched all his life for Jehovah,
and his curiosity opened the door to all sorts of rewarding experiences.
Let's consider just one example.
Open your Bibles again with me to Exodus chapter 3 and verse 3,
and notice his reaction when he sees that thornbush burning in the wilderness and not burning up.
In verse 3, we read,
I will go over to inspect this unusual site to see why the thornbush does not burn up.
Now, we all know what happens next.
It leads to a life-changing conversation with Jehovah,
but did you notice his curiosity?
I'm not sure. I would have done that, would you?
40 years earlier, Acts 7.23 says it came into his heart to make a visit on his brothers,
the Israelites who were slaves.
And again, less than a year later, after the thornbush incident,
Moses is recorded as Exodus 33, 18, as asking Jehovah,
please show me your glory.
Now, do you see the pattern here?
Moses was curious in a very good way.
He wanted to know more about Jehovah and his qualities.
He wasn't shy about asking Jehovah questions.
The watchtower once said,
knowing Jehovah will reward an inquiring mind in ways that no other information can.
Isn't that beautiful?
So if we want to know Jehovah better,
we have to be careful not to let our upbringing, education,
responsibilities dull our curiosity.
Be more observant like Moses was,
and learn to ask Jehovah sincere questions.
Our curiosity will draw us irresistibly closer to Jehovah.
Step number two is to be more open-minded.
Moses wasn't dogmatic.
He was open to whatever Jehovah would reveal about himself.
And this open-mindedness allowed their relationship to go to another level.
Let's look at another example.
Open your Bibles again with me this time to Exodus,
Chapter 24.
And here, Jehovah invites Moses, Aaron,
Aaron's two sons, and seventy of the older men,
to approach Mount Sinai.
Now notice what happens next in verse 10.
And they saw the God of Israel.
Under his feet was what seemed like a sapphire pavement,
and it was as pure as the heavens themselves.
He did not harm the distinguished men of Israel,
and they saw a vision of the true God and ate and drank.
What an amazing experience that was.
It is one of only a very few occasions in the Bible
where humans were privileged to see a vision of Jehovah's glory.
Who could forget something like that?
But what happens?
Seven days later,
Jehovah calls Moses back up into the mountain.
He's there for 40 days and 40 nights,
while Aaron and the elder stay behind.
A few weeks pass, and while Moses is learning more
about Jehovah on the mountain,
the people convince Aaron and the older men to make a golden calf.
How could this have happened after seeing that divine vision?
What were these older men thinking?
While insight on the scriptures explains,
though Jehovah instructed the Israelites to throw away the dungy idols of Egypt,
they failed to do so.
The making of a golden calfer worship likely reflects
the Egyptian animal worship that had infected some Israelites.
Idols and images are a snare,
whether they're physical or mental.
To really know Jehovah, we have to be open-minded.
All too often, we project our own opinions, biases,
preconceptions on others.
We have our pet ideas, our cherished interpretations,
and personal sensitivities that were instilled in us by our parents or education or culture.
We may not even be aware that they're there.
But we can't make Jehovah into who we think he is.
We have to let go of those preconceived notions that may be keeping us from
discovering who he really is, which leads us to step three, show more courage.
Moses often shows experiences where he could do things together with Jehovah.
He didn't let his fears hold him back.
Those who did lost out on wonderful opportunities to get to know Jehovah better.
Let's look at one more example of this.
Open your Bibles this time to Exodus 20 and we'll read together verse 19
after the awe-inspiring demonstration of Jehovah's power at Mount Sinai.
Notice what the people say to Moses here in verse 19.
You speak with us, and we will listen.
But do not let God speak with us for fear that we may die.
The people are afraid.
Moses tries to encourage them.
He tells them in the next verse, don't be afraid.
Jehovah's just testing you.
This is a wonderful opportunity to get to know him better.
But the people don't get it.
Verse 21 says they kept standing at a distance.
But what about Moses?
That verse says he went near to the dark cloud where the true God was.
He may have been a little scared too.
It took courage to do that.
But he wanted to spend more time with Jehovah.
In fact, at Jehovah's invitation, he later goes right on up into the mountain,
into those clouds, and twice spends 40 days and 40 nights listening and talking with God.
Can you imagine what an experience that was?
Maybe he'll tell us more about it in the new world.
How sad though that the other Israelites missed out on that opportunity.
Who knows how that experience might have strengthened their faith?
Instead, the majority never made it into the promised land.
They died in the wilderness because of a lack of faith.
One scholarly reference on Exodus 6, 2 and 3 says this,
to know Jehovah's name is something very different from knowing the four letters of which it
is composed. It is to know by experience that Jehovah really is what his name declares him to be.
Well, our situation today is similar to the Israelites.
Every day consciously or unconsciously, we make choices about how we will spend our time and who
we will spend our time with. Choose wisely, brothers and sisters.
Whenever you have the opportunity to do something with Jehovah, don't hesitate. Just do it.
It takes strong faith to get to know Jehovah well.
We need to ask him more questions. We need to be willing to discover who he really is.
And we need to overcome our fear or we'll end up missing out on opportunities to get to know him better.
Moses got so close to Jehovah the Bible says that it was as if he could see the one who is invisible.
Perhaps no one on earth before Jesus had a closer relationship with God.
Well, you can draw closer to Jehovah too and he will take steps to draw closer to you
if you earnestly seek him. Just like Edward and Gwen built a loving and enduring
marriage by noticing, thinking about and enjoying the company of each other,
we can get to know Jehovah better by being more curious, more open-minded and showing more courage.